# Unraphael

**Unraphael** is a flexible and easy-to-use GUI for visual inspection and assessing the structural similarity of figure-outlines in images. It is initally designed to help art historians and researchers in the humanities to study the artistic practice of Raphael (Raffaello Sanzio, 1483-1520) and the process of making copies of paintings. Indeed, dozens of faithful reproductions survive of Raphael's paintings, attesting to the lucrative practice of serial production of paintings within the artist's workshop and to the lasting demand for the master's designs. This tool aims to provide new insights into Raphael's working methods through new digital approaches using computer vision for the study of artistic practice in art history.

Note, though, that the functionality of Unraphael extends well beyond the study of Raphael's paintings and can be used for a wide range of applications in the digital humanities and beyond. Indeed, the integration of different computer vision techniques (e.g., preprocessing, background removal, image alignment, image clustering based structural similarity) provides an analytical framework for the study of visual culture and the history of art. Unraphael works with jpg's or png's. In the case of the project on Raphael, photographs of paintings are used as input for the application.

This documentation is your guide towards using Unraphael appropriately. It can be used through its online application [here](https://unraphael.streamlit.app/), or else through the underlying code repository [here](https://github.com/DecodingRaphael/unraphael).
